The public’s reliance on electronic devices and cloud services to complete work effectively is only likely to rise further (around 26% of files in the cloud contain sensitive data (McAfee, 2020)). As a result, there has been a strong push to motivate the next generation of cyber security experts. Allowing them to help to manage the risks that come with relying on these devices and services. This push can be observed in the UK government’s “Cyber First” scheme (NCSC, 2020); designed to attract young people into the industry. With such a high demand for cyber security knowledge, improving the enjoyment and teaching methods of cyber security modules would be a strong benefit to the entire industry. 
 In this report, we describe the design, implementation and evaluation of a game that is intended to consolidate the learnings from lectures of students on the ‘Computer Security and Cryptography’ module at UKC. The game is a puzzle adventure with a 2D top-down style. It follows the storyline of a detective, helping a victim of hacking. The aim of the game is to beat the hacker. It requires players to answer questions on a range of topics from lectures about cyber security, to advance through levels, competing for new high scores and achievements. The aim was to explore and evaluate gamification principles and their value to increase engagement with the module contents and use these for our own game. We will test the effectiveness of the principles by examining the knowledge of cyber security of the participants. The game is designed to focus more on reinforcing knowledge that has been gained during the more conventional lectures. By providing questions in an interesting setting and within context, the hope is that that recalling the knowledge becomes easier; assisting the students in answering both examination and interview questions.  
The plan is to conduct testing and analysis into the effectiveness of the game by sending it out to students of the module during lectures and get their feedback of the game using a feedback form.
